# Emacs Evil-mode: Best of Both Worlds

Emacs was my first true editor love. It was a long learning curve, the
most important tip was to remap the Caps lock key to be a second Ctrl
key, but once you realize that any command that you added to your
.emacs file, was a first rate function, on the same footing as the
core functions you turn a corner. The next step is to start calling
help on core emacs functions (C-h f) and then clicking on the file
name to see how they are written in Emacs lisp.

At first I learned just enough vi to edit files on servers when emacs
wasn't installed. But at one job I was forced to work on a Mac
Book. It wasn't all tears and sorrow, but one thing that was really
difficult, was getting used to the meta key to the left of the apple
key. Eventually after too many twisting M-x my wrist started hurting
and I decided it was time to try out Vim. I loved it, I learned about
the magic of motion commands and Visual mode. And after reading Drew
Neil's [Practical Vim: Edit Text at the Speed of
Thought](http://pragprog.com/book/dnvim/practical-vim) I finally
grokked vim. I even became better at writing macros and regular
expressions in vim than in my native editor: emacs.

However, I felt there was something missing. Whenever I tried to look
into writing extensions, I ran into a wall: vimscript. I just didn't
really enjoy learning it or working with it. It felt like a scripting
language, not a full-fledged language. I felt any effort I put into it
was a wasted effort, only useful for scripting an editor. Whereas
whenever I worked with and studied emacs lisp, I felt I was often
learning something about programming itself. Extending Emacs felt like
lessons towards becoming a better software engineer.
